Added dockerfile and instructions for transferable CPU/GPU image (#126)
USGS-R/river-dl: Docker_README.md

On Tallgrass, load singularity

`module load singularity`

Navigate to your river-dl directory

`cd river-dl/`

Pull the river-dl container image from GitLab and convert it to a singularity image. Versions can be specified by
adding the version tag (i.e. `v1.1`) after river-dl in the format `image:tag`.

`singularity pull --docker-login docker://code.chs.usgs.gov:5001/wma/wp/river-dl`

You should now have a `.sif` file in the river-dl directory.  This is the singularity image.

_Running River-dl in the singularity container_

Allocate a GPU node and open a bash script within that node

`salloc -N 1 -n 1 -c 8 -p gpu -A <Account> -t 2:00:00 --gres=gpu:1`

`srun -A <Account> --pty bash`

Set up the environment and specify paths to necessary nvidia libraries

`module load singularity cuda10.0 cuda10.0/blas cuda10.1`

`export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/cm/shared/apps/nvidia/TensorRT-6.0.1.5/lib:/cm/shared/apps/nvidia/cudnn_7.6.5/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH`

Move to the river-dl directory
`cd <path to river-dl>`

Start the singularity container and bind the necessary nvidia libraries and your river-dl directory.

> `singularity shell --nv --bind /cm/local/apps,/cm/shared/apps,[path to river-dl]:/river-dl/ riv-dl-sing.sif`

Reviewer: When I was following these instructions I needed to change `riv-dl-sing.sif` to `river-dl_latest.sif`

Author: I'll incorporate all this in the next few days.  @wdwatkins, I might ping you once it's all done for a final review before merging if you don't mind.

Run the snakemake workflow

`snakemake --configfile config.yml --cores 1`

_Currently, running the snakemake with more than 1 core causes tensorflow to overload the GPU memory, it's not clear why this

> is, but we're working on specifying computing resources in the snakefile to avoid this_

Author: Anyone have any idea why this might be?  @jsadler2 can we adjust the Snakefile to limit GPU/CPU access for certain rules?  If you run it with more than 1 core, it fails on the predict rule. Might be because of the `group` setting here?  Not really sure,

Reviewer 2: If this were on a CPU partition and memory was shared between cores, I would think this is because you were already using > half the memory already with one core, so adding more cores diluted the RAM per core, causing you to run out.  But not sure how different GPUs are to that model.  This depends if a) memory is shared between the cores and b) if so, what is the max memory usage running at one core?

Author: Sounds like you're on the right track David, from the HPC help desk:
"It appears that snakemake is attempting to allocate the entire memory of the GPU per task/cpu.  So, 4 tasks/cpus, each requesting ~14-16GB (depending on how you count GBs), exhausts the GPU memory.

You could have more CPUs using the 4 GPUs, but you have to set the problem/pipeline up differently."  

I believe you can set the max memory per task with Snakemake, I'll give that a try and see if it solves the issue.

Reviewer 3: but running on 1 core is fine?

Author: Yep, the full pipeline runs successfully when you specify 1 core.  I think 1 core forces snakemake to run sequentially rather than splitting the memory between tasks that are running in parallel.  The result being that the GPU memory doesn't get allocated amongst multiple tasks (I think).

### 3) Updating the docker image
First, you'll need to create an access token to push the updated container to the Gitlab registry.
  * Create your access token on [Gitlab](https://code.chs.usgs.gov/-/profile/personal_access_tokens)
  * [Authenticate gitlab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/packages/container_registry/#authenticate-with-the-container-registry)
    using your access token by running the following command and entering your generated token when
    prompted for your password.
    
    `docker login code.chs.usgs.gov:5001 -u <username>`

To update the container image (i.e. add an additional package), you'll need to re-build the image

> locally on your lap-top or desktop using the Dockerfile in the base directory of river-dl. Then you'll need to push the new

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
locally on your laptop or desktop using the Dockerfile in the base directory of river-dl. Then you'll need to push the new
```

image to the container repository on Gitlab. To do this, open up the dockerfile and add the packages you need
to the list, then build the container by running the following and replacing the tag with your version
tag: 

`docker build -t code.chs.usgs.gov:5001/wma/wp/river-dl:<tag> .`

Push the rebuilt container to Gitlab

> `docker push code.chs.usgs.gov:5001/wma/wp/river-dl:<tag>`

Reviewer 3: could also include a `docker-compose.yml` that we can use to keep track of recent tags and other build specs. Example [here ](https://code.usgs.gov/wma/wp/forecast-pgdl-da/-/blob/master/docker/docker-compose.yml)
If using the `docker-compose.yml`, we'd have to change the code to: 
>docker-compose build

Reviewer 3: either one works though

Author: Seems worthwhile to keep track of the tags.  Would the environment and ports from your example be the same here?  docker-compose is a somewhat new to me.   
`ports:
      - "8787:8787"
    environment:
      - ROOT=TRUE
      - PASSWORD=mypass`

Reviewer 3: environment / ports should be the same (I think). @wdwatkins might know better though

Reviewer 2: Yeah, the docker-compose.yml is just a way to version control the build parameters I think, its not fundamentally changing the build itself.  The port and password flags are for images that use Rstudio so not necesarily needed.

Author: In looking at this a little more, I think I'm going to leave as is.  We don't really have build parameters that are going to change, especially by someone just onboarding to the project (the target audience).  I think the simple build call is more straightforward if folks are new to docker/singularity.

`snakemake --configfile config.yml --cores all`

If you get a cryptic `Killed` return, you may need to increase the memory usage allowed by docker. The
default on a mac is 2GB.  To change this, go to docker and select Settings > Resources and increase the allowed
memory.

Once your done, exit the container  by typing `exit`.

**After exiting, you can view the container ID by typing `docker container ls -a` and either remove it 
with `docker rm [container id]` or reactivate it with `docker start -i [container id]`. The above script recreates
the container each time, so if you don't remove it be aware you'll end up with multiple containers**

### 2) Convert the Docker image to a Singularity and run River-dl on Tallgrass.
_If you've already pulled the image to Tallgrass, skip to "Running River-dl in the singularity container"_

On Tallgrass, load singularity

`module load singularity`

Pull the river-dl image from dockerhub and convert it to a singularity image. Replace `latest` with desired tag.
The following pulls the image into the river-dl directory on Tallgrass and names the converted .sif image `riv-dl-sing.sif`.

> `singularity pull ~/river-dl/riv-dl-sing.sif docker://simontopp/river-dl:latest`

Reviewer 3: I don't think the CHS folks want images pulled from Docker registry onto tallgrass / denali / yeti. But you can create registries on `code.chs.usgs.gov`  GitLab and pull from there. Some instructions [here ](https://code.usgs.gov/wma/wp/forecast-pgdl-da/-/blob/master/README.md#L85-97). 

Example of registry [here ](https://code.chs.usgs.gov/wma/wp/forecast-pgdl-da/container_registry)

Author: Thanks for the reminder!  David told me this but I forgot to move the image before submitting the PR.  I'll update this.
